# Perceptual learning: cortical plasticity and memory
Many studies have investigated the underlying cortical functions supporting perceptual learning in the visual system. However, less attention is focused on the contributions from the memory system (i.e. the medial temporal lobe) in supporting cortical pasticity. Interactions between cortical learning and hippocampal memory functions are critical for acquiring the ability of visual categorization. Importantly, hippocampal pattern separation orthogonalizes neural representations for exemplars in the trained category. Output of the hippocampal pattern separation transmits to cortex and increases distinctiveness of cortical representations for the exemplars. When cortical representations for the exemplars are distinct enough, individuals can categorize novel exemplars at subordinate level for the trained category, which corresponds to a behavioral landmark for expertise in categorization. In contrast, individuals perform basic-level categorization for novel exemplars in other regular categories. Collectively, hippocampal pattern separation is the driving force that diverges originally similar cortical representations for exemplars in a category and this process establishes category expertise in the visual system.

To test the hypothese, the first step is to create category objects for the perceptual learning. I have designed several different sets of parameters for each examplers of two categories and tested category learning from these paramters using neural network model. The set of parameters that gives rise to the best category learning was used to generate pictures of 3D novel objects (POV-Ray). Finally, the object pictures were used to test category learning in humans on Prolific. 
